gcp_authn: Add the doc and release note for gcp_authn_filter (#21536)
envoyproxy/envoy: docs/root/configuration/http/http_filters/gcp_authn_filter.rst

GCP Authentication Filter
=========================
This filter is used to fetch authentication tokens from `Google Compute Engine(GCE) metadata server <https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview>`_.
In multiple services architecture where these services likely need to communicate with each other, `authenticating service-to-service <https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service>`_ is required because many of these services may be private and require credentials for access.

Configuration
-------------
* This filter should be configured with the type URL ``type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.GcpAuthnFilterConfig``.

The filter configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.GcpAuthnFilterConfig>` has three fields:

> * Field ``http_uri`` specifies the HTTP URI for fetching the from `Google Compute Engine(GCE) Metadata Server <https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview>`_. The URL format is ``http://metadata.google.internal/computeMetadata/v1/instance/service-accounts/default/identity?audience=[AUDIENCE]``. The ``AUDIENCE`` field is provided by configuration, please see more details below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``http_uri`` specifies the HTTP URI for fetching the from `Google Compute Engine(GCE) Metadata Server <https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview>`_. The URL format is ``http://metadata.google.internal/computeMetadata/v1/instance/service-accounts/default/identity?audience=[AUDIENCE]``. The ``AUDIENCE`` field is provided by configuration, please see more details below.
```

i would remove these "Field " prefixes as i think it would be simpler (and it says above "...three fields:")

> * Field ``retry_policy`` specifies the retry policy if fetching tokens failed. This field is optional. If it is not configured, the filter will be fail-closed (i.e., reject the requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Field ``retry_policy`` specifies the retry policy if fetching tokens failed. This field is optional. If it is not configured, the filter will be fail-closed (i.e. reject the requests).
```

> * Field ``cache_config`` specifies the configuration for the token cache which is used to avoid the duplicated queries to GCE metadata server for the same request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Field ``cache_config`` specifies the configuration for the token cache which is used to avoid the duplicated queries to the GCE metadata server for the same request.
```

> The audience configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.Audience>` is the URL of the destionation service, which is the receving service that calling service is invoking. This information is provided through cluster metadata :ref:`Metadata<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.core.v3.metadata>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The audience configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.Audience>` is the URL of the destination service, which is the receiving service that the calling service is invoking. This information is provided through cluster metadata :ref:`Metadata<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.core.v3.metadata>`
```

> The token cache configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.TokenCacheConfig>` is used to avoid the redundant queries to authentication server (GCE metadata server in the context of this filter) for duplicated tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The token cache configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.TokenCacheConfig>` is used to avoid the redundant queries to the authentication server (GCE metadata server in the context of this filter) for duplicated tokens.
```

Configuration example

> ---------------------

Reviewer: add an empty line beneath here please

> Resouce configuration example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource configuration example:
```

.. literalinclude:: _include/gcp-authn-filter-configuration.yaml
   :language: yaml

>    :lines: 39-80

Reviewer: i think this needs adusting

   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 39
   :caption: :download:`gcp-authn-filter-configuration.yaml <_include/gcp-authn-filter-configuration.yaml>`

> Http filter configuration example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP filter configuration example:
```

GCP Authentication Filter
=========================
This filter is used to fetch authentication tokens from `Google Compute Engine(GCE) metadata server <https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview>`_.

> In multiple services architecture where these services likely need to communicate with each other,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a multiple services architecture where the services need to communicate with each other,
```

> `authenticating service-to-service <https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service>`_ is needed because many of these services may be private and require credentials for access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`authenticating service-to-service <https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service>`_ is needed where services are private and require credentials for access.
```

Configuration
-------------
* This filter should be configured with the type URL ``type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.GcpAuthnFilterConfig``.

The filter configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.GcpAuthnFilterConfig>` has three fields:

* ``http_uri`` specifies the HTTP URI for fetching the from `Google Compute Engine(GCE) Metadata Server <https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview>`_. The URL format is ``http://metadata.google.internal/computeMetadata/v1/instance/service-accounts/default/identity?audience=[AUDIENCE]``. The ``AUDIENCE`` field is provided by configuration, please see more details below.

* ``retry_policy`` specifies the retry policy if fetching tokens failed. This field is optional. If it is not configured, the filter will be fail-closed (i.e., reject the requests).

> * ``cache_config`` specifies the configuration for the token cache which is used to avoid the duplicated queries to GCE metadata server for the same request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``cache_config`` specifies the configuration for the token cache which is used to avoid duplicated queries to GCE metadata server for the same request.
```

The audience configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.Audience>` is the URL of the destination service,

> which is the receiving service that the calling service is invoking. This information is provided through cluster metadata :ref:`Metadata<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.core.v3.metadata>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is the receiving service that the calling service is invoking. This information is provided through cluster :ref:`Metadata<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.core.v3.metadata>`
```

Author: I guess `cluster metadata ` was a bit confusing. I changed to `cluster's metadata field`.

> The token cache configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.TokenCacheConfig>` is used to avoid the redundant queries to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The token cache configuration :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.gcp_authn.v3.TokenCacheConfig>` is used to avoid redundant queries to
```
